Refactor /docs into Concepts (#3877)
clockworklabs/SpacetimeDB: docs/docs/00200-modules/00200-creating-modules.md

---
title: Creating Modules
slug: /modules/creating
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Creating Modules

This guide covers how to create a new SpacetimeDB module project.

## Prerequisites

First, [install the SpacetimeDB CLI](https://spacetimedb.com/install).

## Interactive Development with `spacetime dev`

The fastest way to get started developing a module is with `spacetime dev`. This interactive command guides you through creating a new SpacetimeDB project with hot-reloading - whenever you save changes to your module code, SpacetimeDB automatically rebuilds and republishes your module.

:::caution

> `spacetime dev` is currently UNSTABLE and subject to breaking changes.

Reviewer: Just making it less alarmist

#### Use Template
Choose from several built-in templates:

- `basic-typescript` - Basic TypeScript client and server stubs
- `basic-c-sharp` - Basic C# client and server stubs
- `basic-rust` - Basic Rust client and server stubs
- `basic-react` - React web app with TypeScript server
- `quickstart-chat-rust` - Complete Rust chat implementation
- `quickstart-chat-c-sharp` - Complete C# chat implementation
- `quickstart-chat-typescript` - Complete TypeScript chat implementation

You can also clone an existing project by entering a GitHub repository (`owner/repo`) or git URL.

#### None

Creates a server module only, without any client code. You'll choose your server language:

- **TypeScript** - Server module in TypeScript
- **Rust** - Server module in Rust
- **C#** - Server module in C#

The server code will be created in a `spacetimedb/` subdirectory within your project.

### What Happens Next

After completing setup, `spacetime dev`:

- Starts a local SpacetimeDB server
- Creates a new database
- Builds and publishes your module to the database
- Watches your source files for changes
- Automatically rebuilds and republishes when you save changes

> Your database will be available at `http://localhost:3000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your database will be available at `https://maincloud.spacetimedb.com`.
```

`spacetime dev` publishes to maincloud by default.
